<h1 style="text-align: left;">&nbsp;SG News Article Reaction Analysis Project</h1><h2 style="text-align: left;">Introduction</h2><p>This repository contains the code and analysis for a News Article Reaction Analysis project. The goal of this project is to analyze user reactions to news articles from two Telegram channels, MothershipSG and The Straits Times. The project utilizes various technologies and techniques, including Telegram API (Telethon), web scraping (BeautifulSoup), Natural Language Processing (NLP) analysis, Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) for topic modeling, and the ChatGPT API for topic prediction. The analysis results are then visualized using Tableau and published on Tableau Public.</p><p><br /></p><h2 style="text-align: left;">Data Collection</h2><p>The data collection process involves extracting messages from two Telegram channels, MothershipSG and The Straits Times, using the Telethon library. The messages are then processed to filter only those containing reactions. For each message containing a link to a news article, web scraping is performed using BeautifulSoup to retrieve the full article content.</p><p><br /></p><h2 style="text-align: left;">NLP Analysis</h2><p>Once the article content is obtained, it undergoes Natural Language Processing (NLP) analysis. The text is preprocessed by removing stopwords, tokenization, and stemming. The processed text is then used to perform sentiment analysis, entity recognition, and keyword extraction.</p><p><br /></p><h2 style="text-align: left;">Topic Modeling with LDA</h2><p>To discover underlying topics in the news articles, Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) is applied. LDA is a popular technique for topic modeling and helps identify common themes among the articles.</p><p><br /></p><h2 style="text-align: left;">Topic Prediction using ChatGPT API</h2><p>For topic prediction based on keywords extracted from LDA, the ChatGPT API is utilized. ChatGPT is a language model that can generate human-like text and is fine-tuned for specific tasks.</p><p><br /></p><h2 style="text-align: left;">Visualization with Tableau</h2><p>The results of the analysis are visualized using Tableau, a powerful data visualization tool. Interactive and insightful visualizations are created to showcase the topics, sentiments, and reactions of users to the news articles. The Tableau visualizations are published on Tableau Public for wider accessibility and sharing. You may view the dashboard <a href="https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/altheaxcvii/viz/SGNewsReactionAnalysis/SGNewsReactionAnalysis" target="_blank">here</a>.</p>
